Add documentation for Google Pub/Sub support for ClickPipes (#6198)
ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs: docs/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/pubsub/01_overview.md

import cp_step2_pubsub from '@site/static/images/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/cp_step2_pubsub.png';
import cp_step3_pubsub from '@site/static/images/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/cp_step3_pubsub.png';
import cp_step4a from '@site/static/images/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/cp_step4a.png';
import cp_step4a3 from '@site/static/images/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/cp_step4a3.png';
import cp_step4b from '@site/static/images/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/cp_step4b.png';
import cp_step5 from '@site/static/images/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/cp_step5.png';
import cp_success from '@site/static/images/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/cp_success.png';
import cp_remove from '@site/static/images/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/cp_remove.png';
import cp_destination from '@site/static/images/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/cp_destination.png';
import cp_overview from '@site/static/images/integrations/data-ingestion/clickpipes/cp_overview.png';
import Image from '@theme/IdealImage';

# Integrating Google Pub/Sub with ClickHouse Cloud

> :::note Public Beta
> ClickPipes for GCP Pub/Sub is in Public Beta.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
You can sign up for the Private Preview waitlist [here](https://clickhouse.com/cloud/clickpipes#pubsub-private-preview).
:::
```

:::note Public Beta
ClickPipes for GCP Pub/Sub is in Public Beta.
:::

Pub/Sub ClickPipes can be deployed and managed manually using the ClickPipes UI, as well as programmatically using [OpenAPI](/integrations/clickpipes/programmatic-access/openapi) and [Terraform](/integrations/clickpipes/programmatic-access/terraform).

## Prerequisite {#prerequisite}
You have familiarized yourself with the [ClickPipes intro](../index.md), have access to a GCP project containing the topic you want to ingest from, and have created a service account with the appropriate Pub/Sub permissions. Follow the [Pub/Sub IAM Permissions guide](./02_auth.md) for the exact set of permissions ClickPipes requires.

## Creating your first ClickPipe {#creating-your-first-clickpipe}

1. Access the SQL Console for your ClickHouse Cloud Service.

<Image img={cp_service} alt="ClickPipes service" size="lg" border/>

2. Select the `Data Sources` button on the left-side menu and click on "Set up a ClickPipe"

<Image img={cp_step0} alt="Select imports" size="lg" border/>

3. Select **GCP Pub/Sub** as your data source.

<Image img={cp_step1_pubsub} alt="Select GCP Pub/Sub as the data source" size="lg" border/>

> 4. Fill out the form by providing your ClickPipe with a name, your **GCP Project ID**, and the **service account JSON file** for the service account that has been granted Pub/Sub access. The Project ID must be 6–30 characters, lowercase, and begin with a letter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Fill out the form by providing your ClickPipe with a name, your **GCP Project ID**, and the **service account JSON file** for the service account that has been granted Pub/Sub access. The Project ID must be 6–30 characters, can contain lowercase letters, digits, and hyphens,  must start with a letter, and cannot end with a hyphen.
```

Suggested rewording to be more inclusive of all project ID rules, as written could confuse the reader in the case of a perfectly valid id such as `my-project-42`

   - **Starting offset.** Choose where to begin consuming. Available modes are `latest` (new messages only), `earliest` (oldest retained messages), `timestamp` (with a UTC datetime picker), and `snapshot` (with a snapshot name input).
   - **Filter expression (optional).** A Pub/Sub [subscription filter](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/subscription-message-filter) on message attributes — for example, `attributes.type = "telemetry"`. Filters apply to message attributes only, not the payload, and cannot be changed after the pipe is created (changing the filter requires recreating the pipe).
   - The UI will show a sample message from the selected topic, with a **Flatten object** toggle that lets you preview how nested JSON would be flattened on the destination side.

<Image img={cp_step3_pubsub} alt="Set Pub/Sub topic, format, and starting offset" size="lg" border/>

>    When you choose `Seek to Snapshot` as the starting offset, an additional **Snapshot ID** field is shown. Provide the fully qualified snapshot resource name (for example, `projects/my-project/snapshots/my-snapshot`).

Reviewer 2: Assuming `Seek to Snapshot` here is referring to the same offset as line 61 referring to `snapshot`. If that's the case, consider updating reference to line 61 to consistently refer to there reference UI element. Considering doing so for the other items as well if the labels in the UI are different.

## Supported data formats {#supported-data-formats}

The supported formats are:
- [JSON](/interfaces/formats/JSON)
- [Avro](/interfaces/formats/Avro) — via Pub/Sub native schemas (BINARY encoding)
- [Protobuf](/interfaces/formats/Protobuf) — via Pub/Sub native schemas (BINARY encoding)

For Avro and Protobuf, the schema is resolved from the Pub/Sub schema registry on the topic. The pipe always uses the latest revision of the topic's schema; the schema selector in the UI is read-only by design.

## Compression {#compression}

ClickPipes for Pub/Sub automatically detects and decompresses compressed messages. The Pub/Sub client delivers raw bytes — ClickPipes handles decompression for you with no configuration required.

The following compression codecs are supported:

- **gzip**
- **zstd**
- **lz4**
- **snappy** (framed format)

Compression is detected automatically via magic bytes in each message. If no known compression signature is found, the message is treated as uncompressed. The detected compression type is also surfaced during schema inference, so the sample data preview in the UI will correctly show the decompressed payload.

:::note

> Auto-detection is safe for text-based formats like JSON and CSV, as printable ASCII characters will never collide with compression magic bytes. The decompressed payload is limited to 64MB.

Reviewer 2: Suggested formats on line 122-124 do no include CSV, is this intentional?

If you have specific low-latency requirements, please [contact us](https://clickhouse.com/company/contact?loc=clickpipes).

### Ordering keys {#ordering-keys}

Pub/Sub guarantees that messages sharing the same [ordering key](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/ordering) are delivered in publish order to a single subscriber. ClickPipes enables ordering on its managed subscriptions by default — when messages carry ordering keys, subscribers receive them in order; when messages don't carry ordering keys, behavior is unchanged.

If your producer publishes all messages under a small number of ordering keys (or a single key), Pub/Sub will funnel those messages to a small number of subscribers, which can limit horizontal throughput. We recommend either omitting ordering keys when ordering is not required, or using a high-cardinality ordering key.

### Scaling {#scaling}

> ClickPipes for Pub/Sub is designed to scale both horizontally and vertically. By default, we create a consumer group with one consumer. This can be configured during ClickPipe creation, or at any other point under **Settings** -> **Advanced Settings** -> **Scaling**.

Reviewer 2: Consumer groups are Kafka terminology correct? If so just wanted to check if this was intentional or not. Otherwise we could say something like `By default, we run one subscriber on the managed subscription. this can be configured...`
